Title: My Experience with Harvard CS50 Course
Date: 2023-08-05
Author: George Lindley

This is the best course I've ever done, and everything I now do in computer science are the fruits of this course. 

### The Breakdown
10 weeks of online study, taking around 100 hours (2-3 hour lecture + homework) + additional 50 hours for the final project. To be honest I've spent around 100 hours on the final project and you can see the fruits of my labour here at [CEFR.AI](https://cefr.ai) as well as the breakdown of the development on this post [CEFR.AI - Building my First Web App](https://lindley.me/1).

All lectures were online, and all homework is submitted via GitHub in order to pass the requirements of the course.

### What I Actually Learnt
Of course you get what you put into the course. If you look hard enough (or not hard at all) you can find online the answers to the homework and you could skip through the course in a couple of weeks this way to get your certificate. However, as you will realise, computer science isn't all about certificates and degrees, employers put more emphasis on projects that you've participated in which is refreshing!

1. **The Basics of Computer Science.** The course is what it says it is on the tin. To understand the basics of Computer Science over the weeks we learnt: C, Python, Javascript, HTML/CSS as well as theoretical subjects such as how a computer's memory works, search algorithms, big 'O' notation, how the internet works and recursion. That's a lot in 10 weeks! And moreso than learning languages/theory, we learnt the importance of using Google - yes copying and pasting is at the heart of a lot of what computer scientists do. With this I feel confident to undertake any project. 
2. **Logical thinking.** It's very enfuriating at first to tell a computer what to do and for them to not then do it because you forgot a ';' in your code, or there is a variable that you spelled incorrectly. It seems pedantic, it's like a kid saying 'I'll only do it if you say please'. So through going through the basics of learning C programming language to understand how a computer and its memory works, you learn sequential and clear thinking. You learn that the programming language itself isn't important, but the logic behind the language - thinking how a computer thinks. 
3. **Confidence in learning a new skill.** Cheesy I know, but you'll be suprised how many times I struggled with a weekly task and I thought Computer Science isn't for me. I gave up multiple times, and in fact I'd given up on learning Python/Javascript in previous years also. The difference? Something simple as preparing my mind before learning. 'I can learn this new skill', or 'This task is easy to do because I attended the lecture' affirmation made the world of difference. When I focused with a clear mind I completed the task. If I approached the task with a defeated mindset I became deflated and self-critical. 


Finally a word on online courses. David Malan is what I call a 'super teacher' because he's able to teach hundreds of thousands of students online.